## Implment Spinodal with Different Programming Language

A hobby project to explore the possiblity of phase field with programming languages.

**Available in:** [English](README.md) | [中文](README.zh.md)

### Introduction

This repository contains code for spinodal decomposition of A-B alloy, written in different programming languages. This repository should be updated with my personal blog [A Moment's Rest](https://a-moment096.github.io). The simulation case is from *Programming Phase-Field Modeling*, case study 1 by **S. Bulent Biner**, but may be extended in several means.

This project is mainly for *archiving the code in the blog posts*. For explanation of the code, please refer to my blog (but currently it's in Chinese only, sorry for inconvenience).

### Contents

Currently it contains:

- C++ 
  > corresponding post: [Phase Field Simulation, but with may languages I](https://a-moment096.github.io/posts/impl_spinodal_1/)
  - `.gitignore`: Help ignore `build` folder.
  - `CMakeLists.txt`: CMake Project file for building following two source files.
  - `CPP_impl_v1.cpp`: Most basic implementation with some C++ language features demonstrated.
  - `CPP_impl_v2.cpp`: More complex implementation with OOP feature and customise boundary conditions.

- Python 
  > corresponding post: [Phase Field Simulation, but with may languages II](https://a-moment096.github.io/posts/impl_spinodal_2/)
  - `PY_impl_v1.py`: Implementation with primitive Python data structures.
  - `PY_impl_v2.py`: Use Numpy array to replace `List` of Python, causing dramatic performance decrease.
  - `PY_impl_v3.py`: Use `numpy.roll` function to implement efficient algorithm for periodic boundary condition calculation.
  - `PY_impl_v4.py`: Add matplotlib to visualize the result on the fly after calculation finished and use OOP features of Python.

- JavaScript & TypeScript 
  > corresponding post: [Phase Field Simulation, but with may languages III](https://a-moment096.github.io/posts/impl_spinodal_3/)
  - `.gitignore`: Help ignore `.vscode` folder and `node_modules` folder.
  - `JS_impl_v1.js`: implementation with native JavaScript, JS version of `1-C++/CPP_impl_v1.cpp`
  - `JS_impl_v2.js`: Add some OOP and Functional programming features to the first version.
  - `JS_impl_v3_config.js`: Accepting `simu_config.json` file and parse to set simulation parameters. 
  - `JS_impl_v3_data_structures.js`: Most of data structures defined in `JS_impl_v2.js`.
  - `JS_impl_v3.js`: Entrance point of the simulation of version 3.
  - `packages.json`: The JS and TS project file.
  - `pnpm-lock.yaml`: Lockfile generated by `pnpm`, used to sync dependencies.
  - `simu_config.json`: Configuration files that to be read by `JS_impl_v3.js` and TypeScript implementations.
  - `TS_impl_v1.ts`: Typescript counterpart of `JS_impl_v3.js`.
  - `TS_impl_v2.ts`: Use React to show result through `TS_impl_v2.html` with opening browser.
  - `TS_impl_v2.html`: HTML file for showing results calculated by `TS_impl_v2.ts`.
  - `tsconfig.json`: Configuration files for TypeScript.

- C 
  > Currently the post is not finished yet.
  - `.vscode`: VS Code related files for build and debug files on both Linux and Windows platforms.
  - `include`: Header files for external dependencies (only contains `fftw3`).
  - `lib`: librareis that used in this project. Contains self-impemented `myfft` and downloaded `fftw3`.
    > You can compile `myfft` library from `C_my_fft.c` files. For Windows platform, you need to copy `libfftw3-3.dll` to make `C_impl_fft_v3.c` run correctly.
  - `scripts`: Build scripts used for self-build or envoking by VS Code Launch/Task.
  - `C_impl_fft_v1.c`: Simulate with Fourier spectrum method to solve Cahn-Hilliard equation. Using self-implemented FFT algorithm and explicit method. Default to use recursive fft method and output VTK files.
  - `C_impl_fft_v1.c`: Use self-implemented FFT algorithm and semi-implicit method. Default to use iterative fft method and not output VTK files.
  - `C_impl_fft_v1.c`: Use `fftw3` instead of self-implemented algorithm, solve in semi-implicit method. Default to not output VTK files.
  - `C_my_fft_complex.h`: Implements `fftw_complex` like complex number.
  - `C_my_fft_test_main.c`: Unit tests for `C_my_fft.c` and `C_my_fft_complex.h`.
  - `C_my_fft.c`: Implements recursive and iterative FFT algorithms. Use Cooley–Tukey FFT algorithm.
  - `C_my_fft.h`: Header file for using `C_my_fft.c` or pre-compiled `libmyfft.lib`.
  - `create_directory.h`: Implement a cross-platform folder-creation function.
  - `platform.h`: Platform-specific settings. Contains bench-mark function and includes `create_directory.h`.



### Furture Plan

For this series, we are going to cover the following programming languages (but may not implement in this order though).

- JavaScript (*Implemented!*)
- TypeScript (*Implemented!*)
- C (*Implemented but not written yet*)
- Java
- Rust
- GoLang
- Haskell
- Base Script
- ...

### Notice

Here are some notice for reading (and possibly using) this project.

1. This project is purly a *hobby project* and the code availablity is not granted. The code could be in bad quality as it could be written while author learning these languages. So, if you find any bug, please bear with me.
2. This project is mainly for archive the code appears in my blog. So without any special reason (like serious bugs), the code existed would not be modified. 
3. Although, if you have any idea, question or suggestion, welcome to share with us! Issues and PR are warmly welcome!
4. If you are interested in this project and would like to use it, please notice that this project is under MIT License. Thanks for your kindly consideration.
 